[Music]
i think
we need to understand what that word
race even means you know race
is just a visible way that humans have
decided that we're going to slice and
dice different groups of people right
race is essentially just skin color and
it was used
in colonial history basically to allow
people to
discriminate but the fact is that race
is a biological fiction that has no
basis in our genetic code
you know if it was all about skin color
then what you'd expect is
in countries where we know that
populations are primarily brown or black
you'd expect their rates of covert
deaths to be through the roof
i was wondering i mean you look in
africa it's not huge you would expect to
see
much more impact in in those communities
exactly
so there's something specific about what
happens to people of color
in societies like the us and the united
kingdom
that's not related to biology
which makes them more at risk of dying
from kofi 19.
so what other what other factors might
be at play
to be able to die from cover 19 you have
to catch it first
now if you're for example a rural
farmer in wales you're obviously not
going to be
exposed to the virus that much so you
can expect that you're probably not
going to get
the disease but contrast that to
a health worker like me you're in close
proximity with people
and also these people probably carry the
virus so you're automatically
you know going to be more at risk right
so in london
for example ethnic minorities comprise
about 34
of the population and yet they form
almost half of the people who are
involved in health work like me
more than half of the people who are
involved in food production
and almost half of people who are
transport workers
front-facing key worker roles exactly
black workers are often more at risk
because you're on the front line
and you're in those places where you can
actually catch coronavirus in the first
place
right and so what about the uh nhs
obviously there are
key workers a lot of key workers in that
organization black and asian people we
form 14 of the population and yet we are
actually make up
21 of the nhs workforce so
a little bit more than you might expect
and yet
63 of health workers who have died from
this disease
are from those groups this is really
stark actually it's really quite
shocking when you see it like this
so for me as a doctor it gets even worse
people of color we are 44 of all the
doctors in the nhs
and yet of all the doctors who have died
from coronavirus
95 are people of color 95
95 so the british medical association is
taking these occupational factors very
seriously and is doing a survey to find
out could there be
a difference in the way that people of
color are working that means that they
are more at risk of getting this disease
and it's very preliminary data but it
looks like there might be
people of color are more likely to be in
front line roles more exposed to the
virus
whereas white people are more likely to
be in management roles away from the
virus right there's also this issue of
personal protective equipment
there's data to suggest that 63 percent
of
doctors who are people of color feel
like they are not
empowered to be able to talk about the
safety of their working conditions
compared to just 33
of white doctors so they don't they
don't feel they don't feel they can
ask for the right equipment exactly and
they're not feeling like they're going
to be heard by the people who are
running their service
that's shocking that's really shocking
you